



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2015 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%tags: stunnel, linux

Various programs have a ``http`` interface, for examp-le,
``transmission-dameon`` (a BitTorrent program). These interfaces
can be served outside th LAN, but the downside that they have
no secure (i.e. encrypted) connection.

Adding SSL to it makes the connection encrypted. ``stunel``
is an daemon that tunnels connection with SSL encryption.

== Dependecies ==

Two programs are needed to achieve this. The first is
[``stunell`` #stunnel] and the second is
[``openssl`` #openssl].

== openssl ==[openssl]

This program creates SSL certificates.

To generate a certificate, run:

"""
{{code
$ openssl req -new -out stunnel_cert.pem -keyout stunnel.pem -nodes -x509 -days 365
code}}
"""

This will create a certificate on file ``stunnel_cert.pem`` and a new private key
``stunnel.pem``. To generate a certificate from an existing key ``old_key.pem``:

"""
{{code
$ openssl req -new -out stunnel_cert.pem -key old_key.pem -nodes -x509 -days 365
code}}
"""

== stunnel ==[stunnel]

The following configuration is an example:

"""
{{code
client = no

[name_of_config]
cert = stunnel_cert.pem
accept = host_1:80
connect = host_2:81
code}}
"""

The first line tells that this configurations is for a server.

The between []'s is the name of the forwarding configuration.
Multiple configurations may reside here.

Then, it is specified the path to the certificate file (generated
with ``openssl``). In this case, configuration file and certificate
file are in the same directory.

``accept`` field is where stunnel will listen for connections. Is
the "secure" connection port outside users will see. You can
specify ``host_1``, to tell ``stunnel`` to accept only connections
for this host.
 
``connect`` is where ``stunnel`` will forward the connection for
the port specified in ``accept`` field. It can be the localhost
or other host.

== Running stunnel ==

To run ``stunnel``, just type:

"""
{{code
$ stunnel config_file
code}}
"""

Root privileges are needed for some ports (lower range).

You should the that line to ``local.rc`` for ``stunnel`` run on startup.

"""
{{code
section: options
    screenSaverSync = true
end
section: screens
    serverhost:
    clienthost:
end
section: links
    clienthost:
        left = serverhost
    serverhost:
        right = clienthost
end
code}}
"""

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
{{br}}
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
{{br}}
**First published on**: 2015-10-11

|| Revision  |     Date     |       Description               |
|     1.00   |  2015-10-11  | Initial version. Published      |

%eof

