



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../config/config.t2t

This blog is a way of sharing knowledge. May not be anything interesting
or new. It is only a way to concentrate 'how to do's of things I did,
for future reference.

= License =

The content of this blog is, otherwise noted, is licensed under the
[Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License (WTFPL) version 2 extlink url_wtfpl]

This means you can do what the fuck you want with the content.

Use the information of this blog at your own risk. The author,
or any contributor, shall not be liable for any mistake, misuse,
misinterpretation or catastrophic consequence.

For all the content, otherwise noted:

Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti.

= Tools I Use For Blogging =

Some tools help me to put this blog up.

The first is [Blogger extlink url_blogger].

It hosts the blog, it is where I manage the posts, blog model etc.

A tool that I always use is [Vim extlink url_vim]:
the best text editor I have ever used. Besides Blogger having its
own text editor, it is not sufficient for me. The reasons are three:

- I don't like WYSIWYG
(and I don't like writing HTML directly, it is boring);
- it does not have version control and
- I need to be connected on internet to edit.
-

Vim solves only the last reason. For the other two, I use
[txt2tags extlink url_txt2tags] (a simple markup language that,
among other targets, generates HTML) and [Git extlink url_git]
(as the version control system).

%eof

