



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2015 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%tags: vnc, x, linux

VNC is a graphical desktop sharing system that allows remotely
controlling the computer.

This tutorial covers how to share what is displayed directly on
the monitor, or X's ``DISPLAY:0`` and how to share a new ``DISPLAY``
created for VNC.

== Installation ==

To install VNC, install the following packeges

- ``vncserver`` or ``tigervnc-server``
- ``x11vnc``
-

== Configuring password ==

It is necessary to create a password for VNC, or
it will allow anyone to connect. Type

{{code
$ vncpassword
code}}

and you will be prompted for a new password,
that will be stored in ``${HOME}/.vnc/passwd``. Passwords
have maximum length of 8 characters

== Running VNC server ==

=== DISPLAY:0 ===

``x11vnc`` can run a VNC session for ``DISPLAY`` :0 (the
one you see in the monitor. For doing it, and prompting
for password, execute the following:

=== Other DISPLAY ===

``vncserver`` will create a VNC session on a ``DISPLAY``
different to :0, and will require password automaticaly.
Multiple instances of vncserver can run simultaneously,
each in a different ``DISPLAY``.


=== Stopping VNC server ===

{{code
# x11vnc -rfbauth ${HOME}/.vnc/passwd -display :0
code}}

``x11vnc`` will close the server when you close the
VNC client. For ``vncserver``, you'll need to:

{{code
$ vncserver -kill DISPLAY_NO
code}}

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2015-11-02

|| Revision  |     Date     |       Description               |
|     1.00   |  2015-11-02  | Initial version. Published      |

%eof

