



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%!preproc: 'url_encfs' 'http://www.arg0.net/encfs'
%!preproc: 'url_arch_encfs' 'https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/EncFS'
%!preproc: 'url_fuse' 'http://fuse.sourceforge.net/'
%!preproc: 'url_ecryptfs' 'http://ecryptfs.org/'
%!preproc: 'url_truecrypt' 'www.truecrypt.org/'

%tags: encryption, encfs, linux

EncFS (Encrypted Filesystem) is a tool for encrypted filesystems in user space.
It does not require any special permissions, since it uses [FUSE extlink url_fuse].

Considering I will use encrypted folders mainly on things that need frequent backup,
the advantages are:

- per file encryption: will help on incremental backups;

- encrypted folder can grow: a great advantage against a loopback filesystem (like
[TrueCrypt extlink url_truecrypt], where you need to allocate resources before
using them;

- do not need root permissions: on every host there is FUSE support, I can use
EncFS and

- the configuration is straightforward.

-

I have used [eCryptfs extlink url_ecryptfs] before, but it does require
configuring `fstab` or having root privileges for mounting the encrypted folders.
The configuration is much more complicated.

== Configuration ==

First of all, make sure you have FUSE and EncFS installed on your system.

You will need a directory for the encrypted data to be stored and another
directory to mount the encrypted directory. For the example, let's call
the directories `encrypted` and `decrypted`, respectively. Both on the
home directory.

{{code
$ encfs ~/encrypted ~/decrypted
code}}

Notice that full paths are necessary. You will be prompted if you want
the preconfigured options or to configure it yourself. I choose the
defaults. At the end, you will be prompted for a password and confirmation.

To mount the encrypted folder again, the command is the same:

{{code
$ encfs /full/path/to/encrypted_folder /full/path/to/decrypted_folder
code}}

And to umount it:

{{code
$ fusermount -u /full/path/to/decrypted_folder
code}}

=== External Links ===

- [EncFS official site extlink url_encfs]

- [ArchLinux wiki for EncFS url_arch_encfs]: contains some configuration
for GUI user interaction.

-

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2014-01-09 

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description                        |
|     0.01   |  2014-01-09  |  Initial revision. Not verified.                  |
|     1.00   |  2014-01-09  |  Minor modifications and corrections. Published.  |
|     1.01   |  2014-01-15  |  Adding new "syntax" for code examples.           |
|     1.02   |  2014-01-15  |  A link was not set to external.                  |

%eof

