



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%!preproc: 'url_slackware_tips_wwbrent' 'http://www.fprimex.com/linux/slackware/tips.html'

%tags: boot, slackware, linux

Booting Slackware may be slow compared to another operating systems.
This tutorial is based on Slackware 14.1.

== DHCP ==

Slackware waits for a DHCP response on boot. Look for the following lines

"""
{{code
echo "/etc/rc.d/rc.inet1:  /sbin/dhcpcd -t ${DHCP_TIMEOUT[$i]:-10} ${DHCP_OPTIONS} ${1}" | $LOGGER
/sbin/dhcpcd -t {$DHCP_TIMEOUT[$i]: -10 ${DHCP_OPTIONS} ${1}
code}}
"""

and just add a ``&`` on the end of the last line:

"""
{{code
echo "/etc/rc.d/rc.inet1:  /sbin/dhcpcd -t ${DHCP_TIMEOUT[$i]:-10} ${DHCP_OPTIONS} ${1}" | $LOGGER
/sbin/dhcpcd -t {$DHCP_TIMEOUT[$i]: -10 ${DHCP_OPTIONS} ${1} &
code}}
"""

== bzImage Loading ==

If the message:

"""
{{code
Loading Linux ..........
code}}
"""

takes too long, the solution can be adding the ``compact``
parameter on ``/etc/lilo.conf``:

"""
{{code
# Start LILO global section
# Append any additional kernel parameters:
append="vt.default_utf8=1 resume=/dev/sda7
boot = /dev/sda
compact
code}}
"""

Maybe there's already this parameter commented out, with
another comment saying it will be faster, but won't work
on all systems.

Don't forget to run the ``lilo`` command to modifications
take place:

"""
{{code
# lilo
code}}
"""

=== External Links ===

- [Slackware Tips extlink url_slackware_tips_wwbrent], by Brent W. Woodruff.

-

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
{{br}}
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
{{br}}
**First published on**: 2014-01-14

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description              |
|     1.00   |  2014-01-14  | Initial revision. Published.            |
|     1.01   |  2014-01-15  | Adding new "syntax" for code examples.  |

%eof

