



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%!preproc: 'url_slackware_config_help' 'http://www.slackware.com/config/init.php'
%!preproc: 'url_wikipedia_runlevel' 'http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Runlevel#Slackware_Linux'

%tags: linux, slackware, startup, runlevel

The default runlevel for Slackware is 3: that means it will run
with multiuser mode, on a standard text-based login.

But what is a runlevel? It defines the state of the machine after
the boot. And, usually, for operating systems that implement
System V initialization, runlevels are:

- single user mode;
- multiuser mode without network services started;
- multiuser mode with network services started;
- system shutdown and
- system reboot.

On Slackware, there are 7 runlevels:

||  runlevel  |                  Description                         |
|      0      |                     Halt.                            |
|      1      |                Single user mode.                     |
|      2      |          Unused (same as runlevel 3)                 |
|      3      |   Multiuser mode without display manager (DEFAULT).  |
|      4      |         Multiuser mode with display manager.         |
|      5      |          Unused (same as runlevel 3).                |
|      6      |                    Reboot.                           |

To modify the default runlevel of Slackware, in the file
``/etc/inittab``, look for a line like this:

{{code
# Default runlevel. (Do not set to 0 or 6)
id:3:initdefault:
code}}

As it was expected (on Slackware), the default runlevel is 3
(multiuser mode). Change it to runlevel 4 for GUI login
when the system is started:

{{code
# Default runlevel. (Do not set to 0 or 6)
id:4:initdefault:
code}}

Save the file and that is it. Reboot your system and a
graphical login prompt will be there (if you installed
the packages for one, of course).

=== External Links ===

- [Slackware configuration help extlink url_slackware_config_help]
- [Runlevel (Wikipedia) extlink url_wikipedia_runlevel]
-

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2014-01-09 

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description                |
|     1.00   |  2014-01-16  |  Initial Revision. Published.             |

%eof

