



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%!preproc: 'url_freedesktop_dbus' 'http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/dbus/'
%!preproc: 'url_slackware_docs_hibernation' 'http://docs.slackware.com/howtos:slackware_admin:hibernation'
%!preproc: 'url_wiki_lvm' 'en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_Volume_Manager_(Linux)'

%tags: linux, slackware, dbus, suspend, hibernate

It is very straightforward to make Slackware suspend to RAM or hibernate
to disk using [D-Bus extlink url_freedesktop_dbus].
D-Bus is a message bus system, that allows applications communicate.

On Slackware, make sure your user is on ``power`` group. Check with:

{{code
$ groups your_user
code}}

Change ``your_user`` to your user name. If it is not in ``power`` group,
add with

{{code
# usermod -aG power your_user
code}}

== Suspending ==

In order to suspend to RAM, just run the following command from a user on
``power`` group:

{{code
$ dbus-send --system --print-reply --dest="org.freedesktop.UPower" /org/freedesktop/UPower org.freedesktop.UPower.Suspend
code}}

== Hibernating ==

**CAUTION**: this method does not work if you use
[LVM extlink url_wiki_lvm].  If you do, take a look at
[external links #external_links] at the end of the post.

The command to hibernate to hard disk is similar to the hibernating command:

{{code
$ dbus-send --system --print-reply --dest="org.freedesktop.UPower" /org/freedesktop/UPower org.freedesktop.UPower.Hibernate
code}}

But, for the bootloader to know where to find the state saved on disk
during hibernation, you'll need to tell it. On ``/etc/lilo.conf``, append
the line ``append="resume=/dev/sdX"``:

{{code
image = /boot/vmlinuz
	root = /dev/sdaY
	initrd = /boot/initrd.gz
	label = Slackware
	read-only
	append = "resume=/dev/sdaX
code}}

where ``/dev/sdaX`` is the swap partition.

Run

{{code
# lilo
code}}

to apply changes.

=== Just a Lil' Problem ===

When you suspend or hibernate only with those commands, when
the computer restarts, your session will be unlocked.

To avoid it, call a lock or screensaver before taking those actions.
I use ``xscreensaver`` and have the scripts ``dbus-suspend``
``dbus-hibernate`` to lock computer:

{{code
xscreensaver-command -lock
sleep 7
dbus-send --system --print-reply --dest="org.freedesktop.UPower" /org/freedesktop/UPower org.freedesktop.UPower.Hibernate
code}}

== Rebooting and Halting ==

With D-Bus, if you are in ``power`` group,
you can reboot or halt your system too:

To reboot your system:

{{code
$ dbus-send --system --print-reply --dest="org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit" /org/freedesktop/ConsoleKit/Manager org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit.Manager.Restart
code}}

And to halt:

{{code
$ dbus-send --system --print-reply --dest="org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit" /org/freedesktop/ConsoleKit/Manager org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit.Manager.Stop
code}}

=== External Links ===[external_links]

- [Slackware Docs extlink url_slackware_docs_hibernation]: talks about hibernation on Slackware.

-

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2014-01-21

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description                        |
|     1.00   |  2014-01-09  |  Initial Version. Published.                      |

%eof

