



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2015 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%tags: ubuntu, bash


The default shell for Ubuntu is ``dash``. To change it to
bash, the command ``update-alternatives`` could be used.
The system used to create this tutorial is Ubuntu Studio
14.04.3.

== Current Alternatives for ``sh`` ==

Check the current alternatives for ``sh`` with the command:

{{code
# update-alternatives --config sh
update-alternatives: error: no alternatives for sh
code}}

The message showed that there were no alternatives for sh.
It ``bash`` is already installed as an alternative, jump to
[Configure the Alternatives #conf_altern].

== Install bash as an Alternative ==

To install ``bash`` as an alternative for ``sh``:

{{code
# update-alternatives --install /bin/sh sh /bin/bash 100
update-alternatives: using /bin/bash to provide /bin/sh (sh) in auto mode
code}}

Where ``/bin/sh`` is the symbolic name of the alternative,
``sh`` is the alternative name, ``/bin/bash`` is the path
to ``bash`` and ``100`` is the priority of this alternative.

As there were no alternatives for ``sh`` before, just
installing bash will make it the default alternative.
Just to illustrate the example, to install ``dash``:

{{code
sudo update-alternatives --install /bin/sh sh /bin/dash 50
update-alternatives: using /bin/dash to provide /bin/sh (sh) in auto mode
code}}

Now, both ``bash`` and ``dash`` are installed as an alternative
for sh. ``bash`` is the selected on auto mode, because it has
higher priority.

== Configure the Alternatives ==[conf_altern]

To manually configure an alternative, use the
``--config`` paramater for ``update-alternatives``:

{{code
update-alternatives --config sh
There are 2 choices for the alternative sh (providing /bin/sh).

  Selection    Path            Priority   Status
------------------------------------------------------------
* 0            /bin/bash        100       auto mode
  1            /bin/bash        100       manual mode
  2            /bin/dash        50        manual mode

Press enter to keep the current choice[*], or type selection number:
code}}

And to change the priority of an alternative, just use
the ``install`` parameter as described above.

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2015-09-10

|| Revision  |     Date     |       Description               |
|     1.00   |  2015-09-10  | Initial version. Published      |

%eof

