



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2015 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%tags: android, cyanogenmod

%!preproc: "url_android_sdk" "http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html"
%!preproc: "url_clockworkmod_recovery" "http://builder.unstableapps.com/__hm__/latest/clockworkmodrecovery/falcon"
%!preproc: "url_cyanogen_zip" "http://download.cyanogenmod.org/?device=falcon"
%!preproc: "url_cyanogen_motog_install" "http://wiki.cyanogenmod.org/w/Install_CM_for_falcon"
%!preproc: "url_cyanogen_motog" "http://wiki.cyanogenmod.org/w/Falcon_Info"
%!preproc: "url_gapps_zip" "http://wiki.cyanogenmod.org/w/Google_Apps"
%!preproc: "url_motorola_bootloader_unlock" "https://motorola-global-portal.custhelp.com/app/standalone/bootloader/unlock-your-device-a/action/auth"

%!preproc: "message_warranty_void" **WARNING: this will void your warranty according to the device manufacturer.**

%!postproc: "__hm__" #

I have written this tutorial a long time ago, but it was never
published. I do not even use a Moto G anymore. This tutorial
is here now for historical reasons, but it should work on newer
versions of CyanogenMod and maybe (with correct firmware,
recovery etc.) with newer versions of Moto G. 

I have installed CyanogenMod 11 on a Motorola Moto G XT1033
device. I have followed the instructions of the
[CyanogenMod page for Moto G url_cyanogen_motog].

Everything was fine. But, later, I have tried to install Google Apps,
with partial success (partial because it was installed, but the phone
was unusable). The problem was that, after each reboot, the message
""Unfortunately the process com.android.systemui has stopped""
(or something like that) appeared. Then the GUI would stop, come back
then the same message would show up again and again.

The problem turned out to be on CyanogenMod, not on Google Apps
as I suspected. I wrote this tutorial because I could install
Google Apps and the problem did not appear until I rebooted the
device (to write this tutorial) and the problem showed up again.

So, I have installed the nightly build for CyanogenMod 12 (from
January 27, 2014) and everything is OK (until now).

message_warranty_void

This guide will show the steps I took to install CyanogenMod and
Google Apps on a Moto G. Following the "official" tutorial will
work. I am publishing my own tutorial because I thought the
official was missing some steps. But, when I realized the problem
was with the CyanogenMod build, the tutorial was almost done.

== Setting Up the Computer  ==

[Android SDK url_android_sdk] must be installed on a computer.
``fastboot`` and ``adb`` will be used.

The system used was Slackware. The compressed tarball for
standalone SDK tools was downloaded, uncompressed it and set the PATH
variable of the system for the tools Android SDK.

== Backing Up ==

Backing up data before doing anything that is somewhat dangerous is
always a good idea. The steps of this tutorial will wipe the data
on the device. Backup the data!

== Starting ADB Server ==

ADB must have the server running in order to communicate with
devices.

```
# adb start-server
```

Run this command everytime the server is down, otherwise ADB
will not be able to communicate with the device.

== Unlocking the Device ==

In order to install a new firmware, the device must be unlocked.
A code is sent to Motorola, then an unlock code is sent back by
e-mail. The process is fast.

=== Getting the phone code ===

Enable USB debugging on the phone (on developer options). If there
is not developer options, go to phone settings -> about phone.
Click like ten times or more on ``Build number`` field, until
a message shows up saying you are now a developer.

Connect the phone with a USB cable and reboot the phone on bootloader:

```
$ adb reboot bootloader
```

Then to get the phone code (maybe there is no need to run the
command as root, but it did not work as a normal user):

```
# fastboot oem get_unlock_data
```

message_warranty_void

Go to [Motorola Bootloader Unlock url_motorola_bootloader_unlock].
You must login with either a Motorola ID or with a Google+ account.
Enter the code from the last command, agree with the terms
of license agreement and the unlock code will be provided by e-mail.

The instructions on how to unlock the phone with the provided code
will be on the e-mail too. With the phone on bootloader:

```
$ fastboot oem unlock unlock_code
```

The device is now unlocked.

== Flashing New Recovery ==

Download [ClockworkMod Recovery url_clockworkmod_recovery].

Connect the USB cable and enable USB debugging.

Reboot the device into bootloader

```
$ adb reboot bootloader
```

Then flash the image:

```
# fastboot flash recovery your_recovery_image.img 
```

As stated on [CyanogenMod page url_cyanogen_motog_install]:

"""
Note: Some ROMs overwrite recovery at boot time so if you do not
plan to immediately boot into recovery to install CyanogenMod,
please be aware that this may overwrite your custom recovery with
the stock one.
"""

== Installing CyanogenMod and Google Apps ==

Download [CyanogenMod zip url_cyanogen_zip] and
[Google Apps zip url_gapps_zip].

Enable the USB debugging and:

```
$ adb reboot recovery
```

It was not possible to create a backup of the current
system. It was giving errors.

To wipe the current install, select ``wipe data/factory reset``
on device's recovery menu.

Then send the CyanogenMod zip and Google Apps zip with the
following commands:

```
$ adb push cyanogen_img.zip /sdcard/
$ adb push google_apps.zip /sdcard/
```

Then select ``install zip``/``choose zip from sdcard``. Install
Cyanogen Mod and Google Apps.

=== The Problem ===

Rebooting the equipment was causing the problem stated at the
begining. Formatting the ``/data`` and ``/cache`` partitions
solved the problem. Options to format it are under
``mounts and storage`` at the recovery main menu.

=== Final Considerations ===

If anything is wrong, try those steps again.

If you can boot the equipment on bootloader, or the
system hangs, the situation is not irreversible.

To force device reboot, press **Vol Down** and **Power**
for ten seconds, then release.

To open the bootloader, turn off the device and power it
up pressing **Vol Down** and **Power**.

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
{{br}}
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
{{br}}
**First published on**: 2015-09-10

|| Revision  |     Date     |       Description               |
|     1.00   |  2015-01-27  | Initial version.                |
|     1.01   |  2015-09-10  | Minor Corrections. Published.   |

%eof

