



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%!preproc: 'url_gpsbabel' 'http://www.gpsbabel.org'
%!preproc: 'url_josm' 'https://josm.openstreetmap.de'
%!preproc: 'url_mytracks' 'http://code.google.com/p/mytracks/'
%!preproc: 'url_gpx' 'http://www.topografix.com/gpx.asp'
%!preproc: 'url_kml' 'https://developers.google.com/kml/documentation/'

%tags: gps, gpx, kml, kmz, linux

Recently, I have started to collect data from GPS during bicycle commutes
using an Android smartphone. This job is done by [MyTracks url_mytracks].
I have tried other applications, but this one worked out best.

MyTracks, by default, creates a **kmz** file, which is a Keyhole
Markup Language (**kml**) file (or various) bundled with other resources
into a zip file. It can export to other types, but **kmz** has some
advantages, like photographs embedded on markers.

Loading this file in Google Maps directly from Google Drive was
straightforward, but it requires an internet connection. I wanted to view,
and maybe edit, the file offline.  I have tried loading the **kmz** file
directly on various applications under Linux, but the
I have only achieved getting the begin and end points this way.

So, I converted the **kmz** file to **gpx** (GPS Exchange Format) using
[gpsbabel url_gpsbabel] and the track was correctly imported (I am
using [JOSM - Java OpenStreetMap url_josm] on the computer).

== How to Convert ==

Given a **kmz** file, to get a **gpx** one:

{{code
$ unzip -p myfile.kmz doc.kml | gpsbabel -i kml -f - -o gpx -F myfile.gpx
code}}

``myfile.kmz`` is the file to be converted. gpsbabel does not convert
**kmz** directly to **gpx**, so it is necessary to extract the **kml**
file that inside **kmz** (which is ``doc.kml`` in the example). The file
is piped to gpsbabel which will save the new gpx file ``myfile.gpx``.
If there is more than one **kml** file, the processes must be
repeated for every kml.


=== External Links ===[external_links]

- [gpsbabel url_gpsbabel] (accessed 2014-02-20): project website;

- [kml url_kml] (accessed 2014-02-20): Keyhole Markup Language file type;

- [gpx url_gpx] (accessed 2014-02-20): GPS Exchange Format file type.

-


=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2014-02-21

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description                        |
|     1.00   |  2014-02-21  |  Initial Version. Published.                      |

%eof

