



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%!preproc: "url_openpgp_best_practices" "https://we.riseup.net/riseuplabs+paow/openpgp-best-practices"
%!preproc: "url_subkeys_debian" "https://wiki.debian.org/Subkeys?action=show&redirect=subkeys"
%!preproc: "url_alex_cabal" "https://alexcabal.com/creating-the-perfect-gpg-keypair/"
%!preproc: "url_pgp_subkeys" "http://blog.dest-unreach.be/wp-content/uploads/2009/04/pgp-subkeys.html"

%tags: gpg, pgp, linux

The point of digitally signing and encrypting documents is not the
goal of this post. It will be discussed why and how subkeys should
be used.

== Subkeys ==

By default, when you create a new public/secret key pair
you create, actually, two key pairs:

- a master key used for signing documents and other keys and
- a subkey for encryption.
-

After that, subkeys can be added for encryption or signing.

The point on creating another subkey for signing is that
you should keep you master key really safe, as it is the
one that "proves" your identity. If any of your subkeys is
compromised, you can revoke them and create a new subkey
on the same master key, without losing all your web of trust
as it would happen if your master key is compromised. There's
no limit on how many subkeys can be created and how many
subkeys that are expired or revoked on a master key.

== How To ==

=== Initial Setup ===

Put these configurations into ``~/.gnupg/gpg.conf``

"""
{{code
fixed-list-mode
keyid-format 0xlong
with-fingerprint
personal-digest-preferences SHA512 SHA384 SHA256 SHA224
default-preference-list SHA512 SHA384 SHA256 SHA224 AES256 AES192 AES CAST5 BZIP2 ZLIB ZIP Uncompressed
cert-digest-algo SHA512
code}}
"""

This will ensure that your key will be generated
using stronger preferences.

=== Generate Master Key ===

If you do not already have a master key pair, create one:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --gen-key
code}}
"""

=== Generate Subkeys ===

Then, use the ``--edit-key`` to add more keys:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --edit-key mykeyid
     ... some output and require your key password
gpg > addkey
code}}
"""

It will prompt which kind of key you want. It was only
added new RSA signing subkeys with 4096 as key size and
valid for an year in a total of two:
one for the laptop and another for the Android phone.
New encryption subkeys were not created for each device
because, this way, there was not a way of decrypting
everything everywhere (and people would not know which
key is to be used when encrypting things for me -
that is why more than one encryption key does not
make much sense).

=== Setting Expiration Dates ===

It is reasonable setting expiration dates for the keys.
If the password is forgotten or the key is lost other
way, people will notice the key is no longer valid.

If it was not set on subkey creation, this is
how to set expiration date:

Use ``gpg --edit-key`` command.

Select the keys with ``key key_index``
where the ``key_index`` is
based on the list from ``edit-key`` output.
Then use the command ``expire``.
You will be prompted for the valid period
of the key.  Save modifications with ``save``.

For example, to modify key 1
expiration date:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --edit-key keyid
...
gpg > key 1
...
gpg > expire
 ... set the date for expiration
gpg > save
code}}
"""

=== Export All Secret Keys ===

All secret keys will be exported to ``mysecretkeys``
file, ASCII armored, with this command:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --armor --export-secret-keys masterkeyid > mysecretkeys
code}}
"""

=== Exporting Only Secret Subkeys ===

To export only secret subkeys:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --armor --export-secret-subkeys masterkeyid > mysecretsubkeys
code}}
"""

And to export only some secret subkeys:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --armor --export-secret-subkeys subkeyid1! ... subkeyid2! > partialsecretsubkeys
code}}
"""

The exclamation marks (!) are mandatory.

=== Deleting Unwanted Subkeys ===

After exporting secret keys, delete subkeys that are
not supposed to be on the device. Use
``gpg --edit-key`` command.

Once in ``edit-key`` mode, to select a key,then  use
``key key_index` to select the keys to be deleted.
Once all keys that will be removed are selected,
use the ``delkey`` command.

=== Creating Revocation Certificates ===

Revocation certificates are supposed to be
used when your key is compromised, and will
invalidate the key.

To create a revocation certificate:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --gen-revoke keyid > revocationcertificate
code}}
"""

=== Importing Subkeys On Another Hosts ===

To import a key, or only subkeys, on another
host is as simple as:

"""
{{code
$ gpg --import mykeys
code}}
"""

where ``mykeys`` is the file where the keys
were exported.

=== Properly Storing Keys and Revocation Certificates ===

The master key should be kept really safe. Store the
exported keys and revocation certificates on a USB stick
and printed on paper. Keep another copy on a safe place,
like your parent's home.

This way, if a device fail, the keys are not lost
forever. If a key is compromised, there is a way
to revoke it. If a key is compromised because one of the
backups is compromised too, there is another bakcup
to revoke the key.

=== External Links ===[external_links]

- url_pgp_subkeys (accessed 2014-03-11);

- url_subkeys_debian (accessed 2014-03-11);

- url_openpgp_best_practices (accessed 2014-03-11):
this one have a lot of "tests" to check if the key is secure;

- url_alex_cabal (accessed 2014-03-11).

-


=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
{{br}}
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
{{br}}
**First published on**: 2014-02-21

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description                        |
|     1.00   |  2014-03-12  |  Initial Version. Published.                      |

%eof

