



%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% This file is part of jwaghetti blog's source.
%
% Copyright © 2014 Jean Waghetti
%
% This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
% terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
% as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%!includeconf: ../../config/config.t2t

%tags: gpg, pgp

This little reference guide has examples that allow
[encryption/decryption #gpg_encryption] and
[signature generation/verification #gpg_signatures]
with GnuPG.

== Encryption ==[gpg_encryption]

- To encrypt a file:

{{code
``$ gpg --encrypt file.txt``
code}}

and the encrypted content of ``file.txt`` will
be on output file ``file.txt.gpg``.

- ASCII armored encryption:

{{code
``$ gpg --armor --encrypt file.txt``
code}}

``file.txt.asc`` will contain the ASCII armored
encrypted ``file.txt``.

- To specify a recipient:

{{code
``$ gpg --recipient rec``
code}}

- To specify the output file name:

{{code
``$ gpg --output fileout.gpg --encrypt file.txt``
code}}

Instead of the default ``file.txt.asc``, output
to ``fileout.gpg``.

- To decrypt a file:

{{code
``$ gpg --decrypt file.asc``
code}}

-

== Signatures ==[gpg_signatures]

- To create a detached signature:

{{code
``$ gpg --sign myfile.txt``
code}}

``file.txt.gpg`` will be created with the
binary signature.

- To create a detached signature ASCII armored:

{{code
``$ gpg --armor --sign myfile.txt``
code}}

``file.txt.gpg`` will be created with the
ASCII armored signature.

- To create an attached signature:

{{code
``$ gpg --clearsign myfile.txt``
code}}

``file.txt.gpg`` will be created with both the
message and the signature.

- To verify a signature:

{{code
``$ gpg --verify [sig.asc] myfile.txt``
code}}

Verifies optional parameter ``sig.asc``
against ``myfile.txt``.

-

=== Revision History ===

**Post built on**: %%date
**Last modified on**: %%mtime
**First published on**: 2014-08-25

|| Revision  |     Date     |                Description                        |
|     1.00   |  2014-08-25  |  Initial Version. Published.                      |

%eof

